All right.
So we have the header and footer files created and included in the index file.
What we want to do now is work on the main post area.
OK right now we just have a bunch of static HDMI now which obviously we need to change.
So we're going to have two types of posts we're going to have regular posts which will just be you know
a standard blog post with a title and paragraph and then we're going to have a gallery post which is
going to be obviously what we've seen just the image with the description underneath.
So we need to add support for content or post formats.
So what we need to do is create a functions not peach P file right inside of our theme.
So save that as functions dot THP And when we're going to do is I'm going to create a function to set
up support certain support for our theme.
All right.
So for instance we want to be we want we want to be able to use the featured image or thumbnails so
we'll put that in this function.
All right so let's say BGP and this will be for themes support.
OK so we're going to say function
theme support.
OK.
So a couple of things you want to do.
Let's let's set up featured image support.
So say add
themes for it and then we want in here we want to say post thumbnails
.
All right.
And actually let me just show you real quick before we actually add that I want to show you if we go
to a post we don't have that featured image box down here.
So that's all we're adding right now.
So for the thumbnail size I'm actually going to put it to the max image size because we're going to
use CSSA to shrink the images down.
All right so we'll say set post
thumbnail size.
And that's going to be 900 by 600.
OK then we need to add our gallery post format support.
So I'll say post format support and we want to use the same add theme support function except we want
to replace this with post formats.
OK and then a second parameter we can put in an array of the formats we want to include K.
All we want besides the standard is the gallery.
So we're just going to put in gallery.
OK so now we have the theme support function now we need to pass this into an action so let's say had
action
and the action is going to be after set up theme.
So the second parameter is going to be the function we want to run which is of course themes themes
support.
Actually you know what I want to change is to theme's set up
.
All right so let's save that.
And then what we'll do is go back here and reload.
And now you can see we have the featured image down here.
We also have support for the gallery format.
Now since we have both standard and gallery we need to create the two files for this content.
So in our photogenic folder website I want to do that I want to create a new file and we're going to
save this one as content dot ph p.
And then we're going to create another one called content dash gallery dog Ph.
D.
Ok so content will be for the standard content gallery will be for the gallery format before we actually
touch those files we need to go to our index.
All right.
And we're going to get rid of this for now.
And then what we'll do is is check for posts if there are posts we're going to loop through them and
spit out the correct content file.
So right in here we're going to say P if and we want to say if I have underscore hosts
and then we're going to use this shorthand syntax.
OK so if there are posts then we want to loop through them so we can use a while loop to do that.
So let's say Pietsch P while have posts while have posts and then with wordpress we have to use this
format here where we say colon to the underscore post which is a little weird but that's just what we
have to do.
And let's see this is going to have an end while.
OK so while it has has posed them what we want to do is split out spit out the content file whether
it's content ph P or content gallery that protect that pertains to whatever they click here.
OK so let's say THP and then we want to say get template part.
Okay.
And then what we'll do is pass in content
and we'll have a second parameter here that will be get post format.
OK so whether it's Galerie or just a standard post.
Now I do want to put an else to this if.
OK.
Which which will mean if there are no posts.
So we're going to do that right here say p p else.
And if there are no pose then let's say a Ph.
P Ekho and we're going to use this W.P. auto P function and we want to say
sorry there are no posts.
OK.
Mean make this formatted as PKP.
There we go.
OK so that is the index file.
Save that.
And then what it's looking for these content files so for now let me just put in standard content.
And then this one will be photo.
And let's just see if that works.
If we go and reload we get standard content because if we look at our polls we just have one called
Hello world.
All right so if we add another one that's a test and we'll choose gallery for this one and then we publish
.
We go back and reload.
You can see we're getting photo and then standard content.
So that's our two posts.
They're on the same line that this is actually two different posts.
Ok so we know that that's working.
So in the next video what we'll do is we'll work on both of these content files so that we can output
the post correctly.
All right so I'll see you in the next video